Ada Van Hoorebeke (b. 1982, Kortrijk) lives and works in Berlin and places in Belgium.

Over the last fourteen years, I have researched painting with wax (Batik) and
ways to produce my own colors and dyes with natural waste materials. My
installations reflect on handwork, production chains, “female thinking” and
the need to communicate through creation. I want to share how storytelling,
humor, and learning are interrelated and should be stimulated to reinvent our
world. Through handwork sessions such as textile dyeing, photo shoots and
performances, I want to engage the viewer physically in this research.

Van Hoorebeke obtained an MA in painting in Antwerp (KASK) in 2006 and learned
batik and natural dyeing techniques from artists and craftsmen in Serekunda
(Mbye Ceesay) in 2006 & 2011 and in Yogyakarta (Bixa Batik) in 2016. Among
other places, she was Artist in Residence at: [R.U. in New York
City](https://www.residencyunlimited.org) (2017); [AIR
Frankfurt](https://www.transartists.org/air/KulturFrankfurt) (2017); [Be-Part,
Platform for contemporary art Waregem](http://www.bepartlive.org) (2016);
[WIELS Contemporary Art Centre](http://www.wiels.org/en/), Brussels, 2010. Van
Hoorebeke works in long-term collaborations with different artists and groups
developing projects such as “Fake Calligraphy,” “Private Fountains, Public
Baths,” and solo projects such as “Lace Simulations,” and “Where Batik
Belongs.”  Her work has been supported multiple times by Flanders State of the
Art and by the Senate for Culture and Europe in Berlin. She was one of [Berlin
Art Prize winners of 2019](http://flandersartsinstitute.p.a.mrhenry.eu/news/5692-ada-van-hoorebeke-one-of-the-three-winners-of-the-berlin-art-prize).

Recent solo shows include “[Goods &
Services](http://www.kinderhook-caracas.com/goodsservices)” at Kinderhook &
Caracas in Berlin (2019), “What a Fine Production Line” with Kato Six at [Manifold Books](https://manifoldbooks.tumblr.com) in Amsterdam (2020), and “[Where Batik Belongs - Frankfurt am Main](http://www.basis-frankfurt.de/en/event/ada-van-hoorebeke-where-batik-belongs-frankfurt-am-main)” at Basis in Frankfurt (2017).

Recent group shows include “Ressaca,” at [Spoiler](https://spoiler.zone) in Berlin (2020),
“[Sitting Circles](http://galeriewedding.de/sitting-circles/)” at Galerie Wedding in Berlin (2019),  “Tell Me About You” at Gallery DEN 5 in Tokyo (2019), “[Apparel](https://www.mutualart.com/Exhibition/Apparel-/23D8AE672D2C3622),” at Division of Labour in Manchester (2018), “[Something Stronger than Me *](http://www.wiels.org/en/exhibitions/1016/Something-Stronger-Than-Me)” at WIELS Contemporary Arts Centre in Brussels (2017).

