Arktikaantarktika 0.9 (beta version)

The rise in water levels in New York is slow and irregular and therefore
distorts the human perception of change. Areas that have never experienced
flash floods will start to experience them, in part because global warming
will also increase rainfall. Within a hundred years, lower Manhattan will be
submerged by waters from the melted ice caps of the Arctic and Antarctic.

The text overlapping the drawing is created using the made up
wordâ€”Arktikaantarktika, which becomes a repetitive sound and connects two
Poles. The depiction of the experiencer's state of mind. To get closer to it we
decide to take a walk on the drawing as if we were entering our state of mind.
In this mindscape we wander inside the semi fictional topography. We imagine a
fragment of Manhattan island somewhere in between two poles- Arctic and
Antarctic and us, who worked and lived in NY city. And all are merging into
one. As well, we merge as one with the glaciers if we believe that our world
is an interconnected ecosystem on all levels- spiritual, mental and physical.
If one could say to oneself- climatic change, the melting is happening in me,
as well.

The virtual space was created by the environment artist Justyna Gorowska and
the visual artist Ieva Medioda, who provided her painting to create a
landscape texture. The outline of the space was based on a map of lower
Manhattan.

[www.arktikaantarktika.com](http://www.arktikaantarktika.com)

Technical information:Loading of the site depends on the speed of your
internet connection, on browser version (preferably updated Mozilla Firefox
and Chrome) and on the device on which it is displayed. It may take from 15
seconds to several minutes.

Move around the space with the arrow keys and the mouse that controls the
movements of the head. To move faster use the arrow key and Shift button.

