The pandemic feels like an apocalypse or is it that humans are drawn to
apocalyptic stories? We saw animals and nature taking over. Streets covered
with silence. Can we speak of “global silence”? Apocalypse means uncovering.
Is the pandemic uncovering anything? Like silence is uncovering the inside
noise. 
 
These moments of being alone with our thoughts help us understand the meaning
of our experiences, empathize with others, be more creative and reflect on our
own mental and emotional states. 
 
External silence can also be seen as not having a voice. Can silence protect
us? Can we create silence as an empty space for another human? Silence to be
filled in by someone else. Is silence a condition of a conversation?
 
The default black background is the canvas of our conversation. In that empty
room we are exposed. If silence is a condition for communication, the empty
space creates the relationship. Silence is tension. It is a very delicate
time. An uncomfortable space, a loss. Everybody sees us and we are forced to
see ourselves. Which one is the hardest thing? It is natural to look at the
person that you speak to, on the other hand seeing yourself generates an
additional connection, a connection with yourself. This is very powerful and
changes the way we connect. There is a possibility and temptation to correct
and even censor the image of ourselves much more than in face to face contact.
A self-reflection? Self-criticism? 
 
The glitch that kept coming back while recording our meetings became more a
cure, a journey, than a curse. Between gallery and speaker view, on and off
screens, our thoughts were formed. The error affected the default condition of
our communication. It was like we were in the same room. The loss of the
second speaker screen created a space. It was like being closer, like sharing
the same house. The loss created emptiness that then felt like oneness.
 
That experience became an inspiration to analyze the relations of speakers on
the screen. Faces in the black space, people within the unknown, the silent
empty black.
 
Perhaps the apocalypse represents a lack of certain things from before the
crisis, like physicality, because they may not return, at least not
immediately. In this way our work can be read as an attempt to create
connection through loss.
 
Internal and external silence is a condition for hearing a voice, of oneself,
another human being or the planet Earth.

