_Sonos Civitatem MMXX_ is a dialogue between music composition and visual art,
transpiring into a complex, yet minimalistic artistic body of work.  The
project aims to unravel personal afflictions and questions, which seem to be
left unanswered from a pandemic ridden world. Through this surreal reality,
the artists’ experiences, visions and aspirations meet and reach common
grounds. 
 
With this in mind, the project presents personal reflections of the current
situation (like issues of eviction and affordable healthcare) and moves on by
picturing future narratives happening in NYC and beyond. The project touches
upon ways of how people can connect and find inner peace, which will
eventually lead them to rediscover themselves through a multicultural society. 
 
The collaborative project will first be introduced and presented virtually
through Undercurrent Gallery’s online platform as an electroacoustic
composition combined with a set/repertoire of visual art. It is our intention
to develop the project further so it may be experienced in real time as a
possible sound and video installation with the participation of the audience. 
 
The visuals include layers of rubbings/frottages of “home” using objects like
a radiator and a comfy chair. Stitched ephemera of things such as hospital
bills are used as printing plates upon a prepared paper of an abstracted
yellow color field, subtly hinting at the structure of Indian Tantric
Drawings. All of these works symbolize grief, desires, and expectations of
life, which come together as a puzzle completed by the music. 
 
On these lines, the musical composition travels from one section to another by
hovering through rhythmic patterns and combination of sounds, which form
layers of colors and textures. The piece provides a balance of sounds and
spaces that encourage and allow personal reflections to overshadow everyday
noises. The piece also makes use of phrases that—similar to the visuals—thread
into the notes and sounds, making them significant to current reflections on
the fragility of what we considered as normal and on the construction of the
new normality. 
 
Finally the project offers the audience a sense of belonging and a longing for
a better quality of life that is focused around good health, human compassion,
and fulfillment. 
 
Addendum - notes on process

The project has truly been, on all levels, a continuous exchange of each
artist’s “marks” —visually and audibly. At the start, Nicola recorded the
sounds she makes while stitching; while applying paint to paper; and while
making a rubbing (frottage).  All of those actions had both a visual result
and an audible manifestation from which Mariella continued to build her
composition.  Mariella would then send Nicola a variation of her composed
chords and Nicola would try to feel their intensity and movement through
visual expression.  Kandinsky—would first of course come to mind,
historically— responding to music in his artworks.  
 
This kind of communication between their media and marks continued several
times.  And not to forget, THEIR “marks” originated from focusing in on
specific topics discussed. As the final unified piece came together, the
artists made the decision to allow the music composition to dictate the visual
marks. By doing this, those marks on paper were given the capacity to morph
further by what the digital space had to offer. 

