On August 5, [Undercurrent](https://undercurrent.nyc) launched “10001,” a
collaborative virtual project that continues through September 12. This
project is co-organized by the [European Union National Institutes of
Culture](https://eunicglobal.eu/)’s New York Cluster. Borrowing the zip code
from both the Empire State Building and New York City’s Central Post Office,
“10001” focuses on the collaboration of strangers and the narrative of their
collective creative process using New York City as the linchpin. Coming from a
variety of disciplines, twelve European Union artists who have never met each
other will be randomly paired, making up a total of six teams. Through a
series of Zoom sessions, each team will spend a six-week period developing a
single project that will reimagine NYC post March 20, 2020. 
 
New York City has long been a blueprint for pop culture and fiction, a
metropolis amongst vertical cities, and a plinth for diversity, culture, and
the arts. It has weathered and survived many unforeseen catastrophes, and even
now struggles on a variety of fronts after having been the world epicenter of
the COVID-19 pandemic. As the most densely populated city in the United
States, we will need to adapt and evolve as families, neighborhoods,
communities, and boroughs. With shelter-in-place orders, social distancing,
closed country borders, and global protests for justice and racial equality,
communication, exchange, and collaboration are needed more than ever. This
project imagines rehabilitating NYC through collaboration. As strangers, how
do we work together with what we do not know for a hopeful and better
tomorrow?  

As a gathering space for plural nations, cultures, languages, and beliefs, New
York’s internationalist energy has flowed into the makeup of the artists in
“10001.” Their practices range from moving and still visual and performing
arts to music composition and film. Participating artists include: [Anna
Bera](https://www.thewholeelements.com) (Poland), [Alex
Camilleri](http://www.alex-camilleri.com/index) (Malta), [Mariella Cassar-Cordina](http://MariellaCassarCordina.com)
(Malta), [Saddie Choua](http://kooshkresidency.com/resident/saddie-choua/)
(Flanders, Belgium), [Nicola Ginzel](https://www.nicolaginzel.com) (Austria),
[Justyna Górowska](http://justynagorowska.com) (Poland), [Ada Van
Hoorebeke](http://adavanhoorebeke.blogspot.com) (Flanders, Belgium), [Ieva
Mediodia](http://www.ievamediodia.com) (Lithuania), [Luisa
Muhr](https://www.luisamuhr.com) (Austria), [Kira
Nova](https://joanlosangeles.org/performance-ana-prvacki-ieva-miseviciute/)
(Lithuania), [Jonas Tarm](http://jonastarm.com) (Estonia), and [Terttu
Uibopuu](http://www.terttuphoto.com) (Estonia).  

This project was initiated by the [Lithuanian Culture
Institute](https://ny.mfa.lt/niujorkas/en/) and the Consulate General of
Estonia in New York and co-organized by Undercurrent and [Arts Council
Malta](https://www.artscouncilmalta.org/pages/the-council/our-strategy/internationalisation/arts-council-malta-in-new-york/)
in New York, [Austrian Cultural Forum](https://www.acfny.org) New York, the
[General Delegation of the Government of
Flanders](https://flandersintheusa.org) to the USA, and the [Polish Cultural
Institute](https://instytutpolski.pl/newyork/) in New York.
