John Baldacchino is Professor of Art and Education at the University of
Wisconsin-Madison, where he also served as the Director of the Division of the
Arts between 2016 and 2019. As an undergraduate, he specialized in the creative
arts and education at the University of Malta, after which he moved to Britain
where he did his masters and doctorate, doing research in the arts, culture
and philosophy at the University of Warwick. Prior to his current position, he
held full-time professorial posts at Columbia University in New York and the
Universities of Dundee, Falmouth (School of Art & Design), Robert Gordon
(Gray’s School of Art), and Warwick in Britain. 

Trained as a painter, Baldacchino still sustains a studio practice, which he
regards as being fundamental to his academic work, including his writing and
teaching. A specialist in art, philosophy and education, he is the author of
many journal articles, reviews and catalog essays, and journalistic
contributions. 

To date he published fourteen books which include _Education Beyond Education:
Self and the imaginary in Maxine Greene’s Philosophy_ (Peter Lang 2009);
_Makings of the Sea: Journey Doubt and Nostalgia_ (Gorgias 2010), _Art’s Way Out:
Exit Pedagogy and the Cultural Condition_ (Sense 2012), _John Dewey: Liberty and
the Pedagogy of Disposition_ (Springer 2014), _Art as Unlearning: Towards a
Mannerist Pedagogy_ (Routledge 2018), and _Educing Ivan Illich: Reform,
Contingency and Disestablishment_ (Peter Lang 2020). In 2020, he published
_Sejjieħ Il-Ħsieb: Limitu u Ħelsien [Rubble walls of Thought: Limit and
Freedom]_ (Midsea/KKM 2020), a book of philosophy which he wrote in his
mother-tongue, Maltese. He is the editor of _Histories and Philosophies: The
International Encyclopaedia of Art and Design Education_ (Wiley 2019) and is
currently completing two new books: _Lessons in Belonging: On Art and Place_
(Brill 2021) and _Giambattista Vico: Making before Learning_ (Springer 2021).
